docs(pattern): creation flows (#121)
carbon-design-system/carbon-website: src/pages/experimental/creation-flows/index.mdx

---

> title: Creation flows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Create flows
```

![ExampExample of a side panel multi-step creation flow](images/12.png)

<Caption>Example of a side panel multi-step creation flow</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

### Full page multistep

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Multistep creation flow with image](images/13.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Multistep creation flow with image](images/14.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Multistep creation flow with image](images/15.png)

<Caption>Multistep creation flow with image</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

### Full page multistep with image

![Multistep creation flow with image](images/13.png)

<Caption>Multistep creation flow with image</Caption>

![Multistep creation flow with image](images/14.png)

<Caption>Multistep creation flow with image</Caption>

![Multistep creation flow with image](images/15.png)

<Caption>Multistep creation flow with image</Caption>

### Confirmation

When any create action is a success, a notification banner can be presented to visually confirm this.

![Example of a successful creation confirmation"](images/16.png)

<Caption>Example of a successful creation confirmation</Caption>

## Anatomy

### Button position

> When the full page is viewed in mobile, the buttons are positioned at the bottom of the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When viewed on mobile, the buttons are positioned at the bottom of the screen.
```

---
title: Creation flows
---

<PageDescription>

> Creation is the generation of a new resource. This pattern is distinct from adding, which is the movement of an existing resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create is to generate a new resource. Creating is distinct from adding, but the two are often confused. To add a resource is to include a resource that already exists.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a standard creation modal](images/2.png)

<Caption>Example of a standard creation modal</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

### Side panel

If you have limited screen real estate, consider using a side panel. Side panels keep the user aware of the context in which they are working. You may choose to use either slide in or slide over panels.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a side panel creation flow](images/3.png)

<Caption>Example of a side panel creation flow</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

### Full page

If your creation flow consists of multiple fields and/or supporting imagery, consider the full-page option. Full-page creation flows allow you to take advantage of maximum screen real estate.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a full-page creation flow](images/4.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a full-page creation flow](images/5.png)

<Caption>Example of a full-page creation flow</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

## Multistep creation

> If the creation task is complex, consider breaking the process up into multiple steps. Display related or dependant options together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the creation task is complex, consider breaking the process up into multiple steps. Display related or dependent options together.
```

Multistep creation follows the same principles as standard creation but the creation takes place through several steps. This flow can take place in a side panel or can use the full display.

> ### Side panel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Side panel multistep
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Example of a side panel multi-step creation flow](images/11.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Example of side panels in a multi-step creation flow](images/11.png)
```

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![ExampExample of a side panel multi-step creation flow](images/12.png)

<Caption>Example of a side panel multi-step creation flow</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

> ### Full page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Full page multistep
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Multistep creation flow with image](images/13.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Multistep creation flow with image](images/14.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Multistep creation flow with image](images/15.png)

<Caption>Multistep creation flow with image</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

> ### Side panel

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ![Example of a multi-step creation flow](images/11.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> <Caption>Example of a multi-step creation flow.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ![Example of a multi-step creation flow.](images/12.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> <Caption>Example of a multi-step creation flow..</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Full page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Full page multistep with image
```

![Multistep creation flow with image](images/13.png)

> <Caption>Multistep creation flow with image.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Multistep creation flow with image</Caption>
```

![Multistep creation flow with image](images/14.png)

> <Caption>Multistep creation flow with image.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Multistep creation flow with image</Caption>
```

![Multistep creation flow with image](images/15.png)

> <Caption>Multistep creation flow with image.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Multistep creation flow with image</Caption>
```

### Confirmation

When any create action is a success, a notification banner can be presented to visually confirm this.

![Example of a successful creation confirmation"](images/16.png)

> <Caption>Example of a successful creation confirmation.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Example of a successful creation confirmation</Caption>
```

## Anatomy

### Button position

> When the full-page dialog is viewed in mobile, the buttons are positioned at the bottom of the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the full-page modal is viewed in mobile, the buttons are positioned at the bottom of the screen.
```

> When the full-page dialog is viewed in mobile, the buttons are positioned at the bottom of the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the full-page is viewed in mobile, the buttons are positioned at the bottom of the screen.
```

> When the full-page dialog is viewed in mobile, the buttons are positioned at the bottom of the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the full page is viewed in mobile, the buttons are positioned at the bottom of the screen.
```

<Row>
<Column colMd={4} colLg={6}>
<DoDontExample caption="Buttons should not be hidden off-screen.">

![Buttons should not be hidden off-screen.](/images/7.png)

</DoDontExample>
</Column>
<Column colMd={4} colLg={6}>
<DoDontExample type="do" caption="Buttons are located on the left if they are likely to be visible when the page loads.">

![Buttons are located on the left if they are likely to be visible when the page loads.](/images/7.7.png)

</DoDontExample>
</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colMd={4} colLg={6}>
<DoDontExample type="do" caption="Buttons located on the right should stick upon scrolling so they are always visible.">

![White overflow menu on Gray 10 card.](/images/7.8.png)

</DoDontExample>
</Column>
<Column colMd={4} colLg={6}>
<DoDontExample type="do" caption="If an illustration or image is displayed on the right then buttons should be displayed above the image.">

![If an illustration or image is displayed on the right then buttons should be displayed above the image.](/images/7.9.png)

</DoDontExample>
</Column>
</Row>

#### Including an image

> To include a supporting image, place it on the right-hand side of the window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When including a supporting image, place it on the right-hand side of the window.
```
